1)sukna lake---Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh, India, is a reservoir at the foothills (Shivalik hills) of the Himalayas. This 3 km² rainfed lake was created in 1958 by damming the Sukhna Choe, a seasonal stream coming down from the Shivalik Hills. Originally the seasonal flow entered the lake directly causing heavy siltation. To check the inflow of silt, 25.42 km² of land was acquired in the catchment area and put under vegetation. In 1974, the Choe was diverted and made to bypass the lake completely, the lake being fed by three siltation pots, minimising the entry of silt into the lake itself.

2)rock garden--The Rock Garden of Chandigarh is a sculpture garden in Chandigarh, India. It is also known as Nek Chand's Rock Garden after it's founder Nek Chand, a government official who started the garden secretly in his spare time in 1957. Today it is spread over an area of 40 acres (161874.25 m²). It is completely built of industrial and home waste and thrown-away items.
The garden is most famous for its sculptures made from recycled ceramic
Waterfall and path at Rock Garden, Chandigarh
It is near Sukhna Lake.It consists of man-made interlinked waterfalls and many other sculptures that have been made of scrap and other kinds of wastes (bottles, glasses, bangles, tiles, ceramic pots, sinks, electrical waste,brokenpipes, etc.) which are placed in walled paths.[citation needed]

3)rose garden--Zakir Hussain Rose Garden, is a botanical garden located in Chandigarh, India and spread over 30 acres (120,000 m2) of land,with 50,000 rose-bushes of 1600 different species.Named after India's former president, Zakir Hussain and created in 1967 under the guidance of Dr Dr M.S.Randhawa, Chandigarh's first chief commissioner, the garden has the distinction of being Asia's largest.The garden has not only roses, but also trees of medicinal value. Some of the medicinal plants that can be spotted here are bel, bahera, harar, camphor and yellow gulmohar. The rose plants have been planted in carved-out lawns and flower beds.

4)government museum and art gallery--The Government Museum and Art Gallery, Chandigarh is part of the series of three museums of Unlimited Growth designed by Le Corbusier, the other two being Sanskar Kendra, Ahmedabad and Museum of Western Art, Tokyo. It houses the collection of sculptures, miniature paintings, modern and contemporary art, textiles, decorative art, coins, manuscripts and pottery. The museum has also been declared a Grade-I heritage building by the Chandigarh Administration within the ambit of the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031.

5)Parrot Bird Sanctuary Chandigarh--City Bird Sanctuary Chandigarh or Parrot Bird Sanctuary Chandigarh is a bird sanctuary situated in sector 21 of the city of Chandigarh, India.[1] It is primarily habitat of parrots. Hundreds of parrots live here. They fly in flocks in the morning and evening from here. There are two parks adjoining to this sanctuary. Flocks of parrots sit on the trees of these parks also. It is the second wildlife sanctuary of Chandigarh. Sukhna wildlife sanctuary near Sukhna Lake is another wildlife sanctuary of the city. It is notified under Section 18 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.

6)chattbir zoo--ChattBir Zoo (formally Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park), is a zoological park situated close to Zirakpur, India. The zoo was constructed in the 1970s and is home to a large variety of birds, mammals and reptiles.The zoo was inaugurated on 13 April 1977 by the then governor of Punjab Mahendra Mohan Choudhry, and it was christened as Mahendra Chaudhury Zoological Park. Initially the zoo was populated by a small number of animals brought from Guwahati Zoo, Assam and it soon became the largest zoo in Northern India.[3]